<jreacher@GoodSecurity.com>

3/16/2022

# High-Level Summary

GoodSecurity was tasked with performing an internal penetration test on
GoodCorp's CEO, Hans Gruber. An internal penetration test is a dedicated
attack against internally connected systems. The focus of this test is
to perform attacks, similar to those of a hacker and attempt to
infiltrate Hans' computer and determine if it is at risk. GoodSecurity's
overall objective was to exploit any vulnerable software and find the
secret recipe file on Hans' computer, while reporting the findings back
to GoodCorp.

When performing the internal penetration test, there were several
alarming vulnerabilities that were

identified on Hans' desktop. When performing the attacks, GoodSecurity
was able to gain access to his machine and find the secret recipe file
by exploit two programs that had major vulnerabilities. The details of
the attack can be found in the 'Findings' category.

# Findings

Machine IP:

192.168.0.20

Hostname:

MSEDGEWIN10

Vulnerability Exploited:

CVE-2004-1561

Vulnerability Explanation:

Buffer overflow in Icecast 2.0.1 and earlier allows remote attackers to
execute arbitrary code via an HTTP request with a large number of
headers.

In short, is possible to execute remote code simply using the normal
HTTP request plus 31 headers followed by a shellcode that will be
executed directly without the need of calling/jumping to registers or
addresses or using other annoying techniques.

Severity:

In your expert opinion, how severe is this vulnerability? High, It
allows the attacker to remotely take over the system without having user
credentials

Proof of Concept:

This is where you show the steps you took. Show the client how you
exploited the software services. Please include screenshots!

Exploit to run

![Text Description automatically
generated](media\image1.png){width="4.75in"
height="3.2621062992125984in"}

Find secretfile.txt on MSEDGEWIN10

![Text Description automatically
generated](media\image2.png){width="6.366666666666666in"
height="3.064978127734033in"}

Find recipe.txt on MSEDGEWIN10

![Text Description automatically
generated](media\image3.png){width="7.5in"
height="1.7305555555555556in"}

Enumerating All Users

![Text Description automatically
generated](media\image4.png){width="7.5in" height="2.984722222222222in"}

# Recommendations

What recommendations would you give to GoodCorp?

Either upgrading to the latest version of icecast or replace the
application with something that is not vulnerable.
