**Unit 18 Homework: Lets go Splunking!**

**Scenario**

You have just been hired as an SOC Analyst by Vandalay Industries, an
importing and exporting company.

-   Vandalay Industries uses Splunk for their security monitoring and
    > have been experiencing a variety of security issues against their
    > online systems over the past few months.

-   You are tasked with developing searches, custom reports and alerts
    > to monitor Vandalay's security environment in order to protect
    > them from future attacks.

**System Requirements**

You will be using the Splunk app located in the Ubuntu VM.

**Your Objective**

Utilize your Splunk skills to design a powerful monitoring solution to
protect Vandaly from security attacks.

After you complete the assignment you are asked to provide the
following:

-   Screen shots where indicated.

-   Custom report results where indicated.

**Vandalay Industries Monitoring Activity Instructions**

**Step 1: The Need for Speed**

**Background**: As the worldwide leader of importing and exporting,
Vandalay Industries has been the target of many adversaries attempting
to disrupt their online business. Recently, Vandaly has been
experiencing DDOS attacks against their web servers.

Not only were web servers taken offline by a DDOS attack, but upload and
download speed were also significantly impacted after the outage. Your
networking team provided results of a network speed run around the time
of the latest DDOS attack.

**Task:** Create a report to determine the impact that the DDOS attack
had on download and upload speed. Additionally, create an additional
field to calculate the ratio of the upload speed to the download speed.

1.  Upload the following file of the system speeds around the time of
    > the attack.

    -   [**<u>Speed Test
        > File</u>**](file:///C:\Users\admin\AppData\Local\Temp\resources\server_speedtest.csv)

2.  Using the **eval** command, create a field called **ratio** that
    > shows the ratio between the upload and download speeds.

    -   Hint: The format for creating a ratio is: **\| eval
        > new\_field\_name = ‘fieldA’ / ‘fieldB’**

3.  Create a report using the Splunk’s **table** command to display the
    > following fields in a statistics report:

    -   **\_time**

    -   **IP\_ADDRESS**

    -   **DOWNLOAD\_MEGABITS**

    -   **UPLOAD\_MEGABITS**

    -   **ratio**

> Hint: Use the following format when for the **table** command: **\|
> table fieldA fieldB fieldC**

4.  Answer the following questions:

    -   Based on the report created, what is the approximate date and
        > time of the attack? 2-23-20 14:30

    -   How long did it take your systems to recover?

> 4 hours

<img src="media\image1.png" style="width:6.5in;height:2.80903in" alt="Table Description automatically generated" />

Submit a screen shot of your report and the answer to the questions
above.

**Step 2: Are We Vulnerable?**

**Background:** Due to the frequency of attacks, your manager needs to
be sure that sensitive customer data on their servers is not vulnerable.
Since Vandalay uses Nessus vulnerability scanners, you have pulled the
last 24 hours of scans to see if there are any critical vulnerabilities.

-   For more information on Nessus, read the following
    > link: [**<u>https://www.tenable.com/products/nessus</u>**](https://www.tenable.com/products/nessus)

**Task:** Create a report determining how many critical vulnerabilities
exist on the customer data server. Then, build an alert to notify your
team if a critical vulnerability reappears on this server.

1.  Upload the following file from the Nessus vulnerability scan.

    -   [**<u>Nessus Scan
        > Results</u>**](file:///C:\Users\admin\AppData\Local\Temp\resources\nessus_logs.csv)

2.  Create a report that shows the **count** of critical vulnerabilities
    > from the customer database server.

    -   The database server IP is **10.11.36.23**.

    -   The field that identifies the level of vulnerabilities
        > is **severity**.

> <img src="media\image2.png" style="width:6.38244in;height:1.55424in" alt="Graphical user interface, application Description automatically generated" />

3.  Build an alert that monitors every day to see if this server has any
    > critical vulnerabilities. If a vulnerability exists, have an alert
    > emailed to [**soc@vandalay.com**](mailto:soc@vandalay.com).

> <img src="media\image3.png" style="width:5.53333in;height:2.38958in" alt="Graphical user interface, text, application Description automatically generated" />

**Step 3: Drawing the (base)line**

**Background:** A Vandaly server is also experiencing brute force
attacks into their administrator account. Management would like you to
set up monitoring to notify the SOC team if a brute force attack occurs
again.

**Task:** Analyze administrator logs that document a brute force attack.
Then, create a baseline of the ordinary amount of administrator bad
logins and determine a threshold to indicate if a brute force attack is
occurring.

1.  Upload the administrator login logs.

    -   [**<u>Admin
        > Logins</u>**](file:///C:\Users\admin\AppData\Local\Temp\resources\Administrator_logs.csv)

2.  When did the brute force attack occur? 2/21/20 from 9am till 3pm

    -   Hints:

        -   Look for the **name** field to find failed logins.

        -   Note the attack lasted several hours.

> <img src="media\image4.png" style="width:6.75in;height:2.5025in" alt="Table Description automatically generated" />

3.  Determine a baseline of normal activity and a threshold that would
    > alert if a brute force attack is occurring.

> Normal activity is anything below 390 failed logins in an hour. The
> threshold to alert for a brute force attack is 525 failed logins

4.  Design an alert to check the threshold every hour and email the SOC
    > team at SOC@vandalay.com if triggered.

> <img src="media\image5.png" style="width:6.23333in;height:2.4437in" alt="Graphical user interface, text, application Description automatically generated" />
